Creating Chatbots & the Future of AI
@jorge_distress | @BrianRose | @ryan_a_bell
December 5th, 2017 | TwitterLA

--- Chatbots @ twitter

1. who am i (@jorge_distress)

employee at twitter boulder
Nick / Nicholas
been with twitter for 1.5 years
currently on the bbc (?) team
before that, worked on notification pipeline, revamping discovery tab content, user trends, and abuse handling

2. why chatbots on twitter
people on twitter have a unique customer mindset
build deep rich personalized and shareable content experiences
chatbots aren't the why, they're the how- a tool to build something interesting
a power native canvas for creative expression

3. what's working
demo: video from api strategy team
(wendy's partner video on bracket builder bot)
key metrics: 2M DMs, 100M impressions, 5mins interactivity time

turn people into advocates:
dm card in a tweet
button to tweet
customize tweet
tweet with dm card

Areas of Brand Investment
Marketing:
  Content Discovery
  Brand Engagement
  Product Configuration
  Quizzes
  Social Games
  Lead Generation
Loyalty:
  News Subscriptions
  Product Annoucements
  Coupons
  Movie Trailers
  Exclusive Content
Customer Care:
  Automated Support
  Service Alerts
  FAQs
  Bill Payment
  Flight Check-In
  Order Updates

things that don't work well:
online ordering
ex. ordering a shirt: sizes vary per vendor, etc.

personal anecdote: great interaction with spotify

chat with @United to find deals, get answers to common questions, or talk to a human

samsung australia 
created product fit by delivering personalized tv recommendations

89% of people who started completed the experience
1:31 mm:ss average engagement time with chatbot
1/4 the cost/lead compared to traditional channel cost for samsung


4. getting started

chat apis fall into two categories: discovery, and messaging experience

discovery:
direct message card
direct message deeplink
profile button
buttons on websites

dm card:
drive people into DMs frmo promoted and organic tweets
supports multiple "welcome" messages (button/ui labels)

dm deeplink
include a deeplink in replies for smooth transitions into DMs

profile button:
display a prominent call-to-action on a business or chatbot profile
-> t.co/message-button

messaging experience:

welcome messages
quick replies
buttons on messages
custom profiles

welcome message:
set context and greet people as they enter DMs
deeplink to specific chatbot flows

quick replies:
make it fast and easy for people to interact with a structured dialog

buttons on messages (call to action):
buttons make it easy for people to take actions outside the conversation

custom profiles:
emphasize when a human is conversing and indicate when a bot is interacting in Direct Messages

Measure to improve
NPS net promoter score
customer feedback allows brands to solicit feedback about their service on twitter
60% leave feedback
20% leave comments

Developer Platform
1. Account Activity API (webhooks)
2. POST direct_messages/events/new
  Quick Replies (incl. location)
  Buttons
  Media Attachments
3. POST direct_messages/welcome_messages/new

In Practice
configure your welcome message
a user opens up a DM with your account
your welcome message will automatically be inserted into the conversation
the user types a response
you will receive this message as a web hook via the account activity api

Getting Access
many of these features are a part of the new API public beta
most features are free as in beer
some features are behind an approval process during the public beta
  NPS
  AAA

this beta round will end sometime next year

get the docs: http://t.co/dm-api

Questions?

Q: Is there a premade template or api for building bots?
Partner: Sprinkler (sp?) has an API for drag and drop bot building

---- #ChatBotChat

Brian Rose - background
10 years at google
currently working in incubator: area120.com
worked with niantic
works on conversational systems, etc.

ed: round table on chatbots and ai
ed: not particularly interesting

Q: are there any lessons from fields or areas where people prefer talking to people even though interaction with a bot is more convenient or even better?
A (Nick): humans are really bad at taking a step back and acknowledging our own biases; this is really important in our world. as we build machines to take on more and more of our tasks or augment our function, one thing you start to see is that we start to build these algorithms (things) in our own image. one example: xbox kinect, the first version really only recognized white people. what does this say about us (developers)?
Q: they work great for the group that it's biased for
A (room): *laughter*
A (Brian): one thing that concerns me is that humans are also becoming more bot-like. customer service reps are often trained to just read back from a script, just as we would do with a bot. also, bots are not good at sarcasm, and this tends to trip up chatbots, as they're trained to read (interpret) things plaintext.

