Panel: 
Chad Faulkner @SportsAcademyHQ
Brian Kim VP of Product @GumGum
Ben Tubey Founder of Piptook @PiptookAU

Host: Ryan A Bell @hydro_social / @ryan_a_bell

(ed - all of this is paraphrased)
(ed - some questions skipped)

Q: what are the two things that make you say, let's do something with @piptookau (directed to chad)
A: needed support from math and science experts in learning how to grow his business and gather objectives (just need core insights to work on), eventually learn what offerings to provide for athletes and clients 

Q: brian, you've been building on twitter for a long time. tell us how you got started and how you got to where you are at now
A: we've been on twitter's platform for three years, and prior when we used to deal with GNIP. we knew there was this big opportunity on social media, and shift in time spent going to these platforms. need to be able to precisely identify facets of interest. over the last year, found this niche with the sports space, an interesting part of this journey is getting aggressive support from twitter in collaborating and gathering data. hard to get this kind of support from IG, support from FB to perform these activities.

Q: how have you seen your brand evolve?
A (ben): twitter has been supportive and really allowed us to be able to start (bootstrap) from ground zero; to build and innovate. FB is always impeding us on cost, twitter allows us to innovate. also we've found that we work together well. twitter has been able to use our case studies to show off our collaboration and value.

Q: i think we can all agree that everything is in a state of disruption. every time we do something, we learn that we can do something new and better. what's something we've learned that has brought us to the next level?
A (chad): i have one example. we started sports academy, ~2 years ago. we thought we were starting out local, put together something moving from just sports medicine, ingesting technology to infuse all our practice, expanding to training, psychology, coaching, etc. empowering everyone in our full stack to make better decisions. (unifying the cycle of player development all under one roof). we know if an athlete complies with our plan, they will get better. now we are targeting eSports, and are building out a facility to also do the same for eSports players. we hope to work on many of the same principals: collaboration, mindset, teamwork, etc. (extra stuff very jerry maguire-ish, basically treating them first class and humanizing development - ed)

Q: how do you open conversations with brands and reach out to them opportunities?
A (ben): what is a customer trying to do? help them ask the right questions, help guide them to objectives. one problem is when dealing with larger companies, sometimes they have too many objectives and too many intentions going on. i'm more interested in building value, whether with AI or not, not just creating crap AI to show off.

Q: what do you think your clients wish we (twitter) would help them with the most?
A (ben): Revenue share? *panel laughs*

Q (aud): all of you are involved in sports and athletics, do you see twitter being a skewed part of the social universe? or is it that the demographic really is more sports, youth (sic) oriented.?
A (ben): this perception is skewed because of the big players, because the big players basically draw users to the platform by virtue of their presence. eSports, however, is almost completely dominating (presence) on twitter. one thing of interest to all of us is educating our clients, our stars (sports/athletes) in how to use social media. one interesting thing: ig and twitter audiences are about the same age, but twitter users earn more money.
A (brian): users are a different majority demographic now. younger people don't have the attention span, are interested more in interacting (sic in channel). older users, like chad *panel laughs* are more interested in news.

Q: what has your experience been in dealing with attrition for your clients in social media?
A (ben): it's an education piece, a lot of them started very immature, didn't learn how to use it. many of them get digitally lazy, etc. i feel there's a lot more of educatino to do with our clients. often it's the youngest person in the office doing the social media work. they forget their assets, their audience, etc. but with all the new apis we can present them more facts, more information. 
A (brian): for us, it's not really attrition, it's an education process. teaching the VP of teams, they tend to be old school, selling arena seats, etc. traditional markets. and left their digital strategy to a young guy and not knowing their value and how to think in the medium, how to properly allocate their money in the medium, and keep them from just holding on to their old standards, figure out new ways to be able to expand their suite of solutions
A (ben): definitely agree, one thing for us is location analysis, and we show things like geofences, showing what is relevant to the brand in the physical locations and see the real traffic being generated (foot traffic!) and use VERO (the jellyfish app) to identify VIP candidates who can extend their reach and will promote and show off their brands.
A (chad): interesting thing i've learned is that business leaders need to understand is that this is also work. if you're implementing these strategies in a company, and don't manage consistently and steadily, you don't get results. you have to work on execution, busines practices, and intuitive/guesswork doesn't bring results. use real math/sciences (analytics) to generate value and hold down churn. you can help old guys like me and understand the value and its importance to your (their) business.
NOTE (ed): interesting that these people do not think of attrition as the end of the road or death of a brand- that everything can be fixed in social media.

Q (aud, venus): what are you concerns about companies using their youngest and most naive employees to manage social presence, and wouldn't it be better to utilize older members of staff?
A (ben): we find that content is key, content over conversations gets results. 
Q (venus): how can we as a startup, integrate our wisest people? we have this mega-world that we are creating and yet putting people at the forefront who have zero life experience?
A (chad): we have to frame and set strict objectives, and you can be any age. you just gotta set the standard and our responsibility to create value whereever we are at (ed- present).

