twitter business messaging - "always be happening"

harrison neff
@harris_0n

examples: xerox spark
first smartphone: simon (by IBM)

the future of consumer tech is conversations

build experiences that are rich, engaging, personlized, and shared

venn diagram: mindset || platform || insights (full 3-way intersection)

history: 13 years of historic data available

people on twitter have a unique customer mindset

82% of people actively engage with brands on twitter

more people say they expect brands to have a presence on twitter than other social platforms

reference tweet: amy worley @worleygirl to @southwestair (ten years ago)

* mindset
1. people expect brands to be on twitter
2. people actively engage with business on twitter scale
3. ??? (this is not a new thing??)

* intelligent systems can get unique insights from conversational data

reference tweet: jeff lesser @jefflesser - just pre-ordered the new @CHAInGANGOF1974 album which comes out 6/23. listen to the brand new single. it's great!
reference tweet: jess lesser again, on film trailer
cont. - profiling user @jefflesser's interests: photography, music, drones

* insights

1 build intelligent systems based on 11 years of historical data
2 collect additional customer insights from the interaction
3 ecosystem of intelligent systems to utilize insights

* uniquely unified public and private conversational interfaces

* message button (new feature in twitter app)
prominently display a call-to-action on your profile to inform people they have the option to get help privately

* public -> private interaction transition
in the event that a conversation neds to be handled privately, you can handle it with a call-to-action button

30% higher tweet-to-direct message conversion by having a public call to action button

* direct message card

make direct message experiences more discoverable with a new customizable card that can be used in promoted and organic tweets

* welcome messages

set context and greet people as they enter DMs
guide them to the best ways to interact with a business, whether a human or bot

* rich media in DMs
create rich and engaging conversational experiences with native images, video, and GIFs, as well as player, moments audio, and summary cards

* custom profiles

emphasize when a human is conversing and indicate when a bot is interacting in direct messages
ref: screenshot of a DM conversation showing an agent labeled in the DM conversation

* location sharing

connect direct messages to the real world by requesting and sharing locations

* measure to improve

customer feedback allows brands to solicit feedback about their service on twitter
(new end-of-conversation card in-app/in-place that solicits feedback)

60% leave feedback
20% leave comments

* new APIs
receive activities: real-time account activity api, polled dm get rest endpoints
respond to people: dm post rest endpoints

* recent creative applications

~ chat with @United to find deals, get answers to common questions, or talk to a human

demo: showing features
quick-reply dropdown/list
map
image reply
NLP reply (not twitter, host implemented)

~ @starbucks delivers ongoing offers and coupons to drive in-store visits

~ engage with @wendys to build a march madness bracket and get updates

demo: interactive quick-replies to build a bracket

result: 8M organic impressions

* platform

1. rich engaging conversation interface
2. seamless integratino of public and private messaging
3. ecosystem patrners to build conversational interfaces

* twitter is a unique network
1. people on twitter have a unique customer mindset
2. businesses can get unique insights from conversational data
3. businesses can utilitze ... ???

* #thanks!

Q: is there way to do targeted demographics? eg. how do i find a drone-using young male skier? technology-enthusiasts?
A: some of this exists in insights APIs but no way to locate users by these metrics, only tweets (build on historic/GNIP apis)

Q: are there rules around companies not disclosing that you're talking to a bot
A: there are no rules yet, but it is in a company's best interest to inform you that you are talking to a bot. there are no rules, but this is mostly a trust thing. most applications announce when you are talking to a bot. bots can handle a lot and are getting smarter, but there is more (to be done?)

Q: can you setup the realtime API for a subject matter, or a context (subtweet), if someone did "Wendys" and not "@Wendys" or something more specific
A: account related APIs only get stuff for a specific account. powertrack is an API that can do some things like that.

Q: did you reach out to wendy's or did they reach out to you?
A: we have an ecosystem now of partners, this was built out via a partner (acquisition?? - ed) called conversible

Q: you showed one example of a user getting pulled into a private conversation, is there a reverse action (funnel - ed) that can get them to go back out and tweet in public?
A: yes, this is supported by actions in quick-reply in DMs

Q: are discussion threads in DMs retained?
A: yes

Q: is there end-to-end encryption planned for DMs?
A: we don't have a secure channel within the context of DMs, just secure delivery (TLS, etc.)

Q: is there going to be an ad-product for DMs? eg. a new push channel, for post engagement
A: I don't know but it might be a possibility (ed - not sure what is being asked here?)

Q: question about how likefolio works (as mentioned in intro)
A: something about sampling groups and feedback loops