transformative change in challenging times
monica ann arrambide - ceo of maven youth

slide: today is national coming out day

first national coming out day took place on oct 11th, 1988

what are you thinking when you think of the 80s? atari? video games? michael jackson, etc?

i'm wondering if anyone in the audience thought about HIV/AIDS?
this was a big time
1988 was moving towards the peak of the HIV/AIDS crisis

the death rate in 1988 was 80-100 people passing away each week

we had half the LGBT community running and saying how can we support and assist and help
and the other half ran away

in the 1988, we had a president who could not utter the words AIDS yet
by the closing of 1988 we had 25k people who had passed away

the reagans were so busy focusing on the issue they thought was the issue in the 80s, drugs, the epidemic of teenagers trying drugs

but couldn't utter the words or recognize the epidemic claiming 80-100 lives a week

reagan uttered: "my criticism is that the gays are asking for civil rights, it is asking for acceptance of an alternative lifestyle that i cannot and will not (recognize? -ed)"

so whaqt is a climate?
aside from AIDS, we had so many icons
george michale
KD lang, etc
who had not come out yet
they were fearful of damage to their careers
and LGBT characters in tv? they also died in shows and films.. other (missed phrases)

there were ads in the paper, saying: let's get married, that way we can be invisible at work

so if you were (visible?) you could get pushed out, fired, removed from the workplace

slide: transformative change
trans form a tive
adjective: a market change, a transformation

so let's go back to national coming out day
it started with a concept by one organization saying, you know what? we need to have a voice, we have to have, create a normalcy to this thing about being LGBT
let us reference HPOG to allow people to show up, come out, ...
create a message, a campaign
i remember when it came around every year back then, whether NCOD would be the day i could come out
people were dying so rapidly, we had mass funerals, services for 20 at a time sometimes
i remember a story of a person coming up to me who expressed they were HIV positive
and then i knew i don't have to be fearful anymore
i didn't have to be fearful or hateful anymore
so NCOD said
let's come out
normalized it
dem0onstrate we are brothers and sisters, teachers, colleagues, neighbors, etc.
so with one person on stage saying, hey, come out
i encourage you to come out
and then others followed suit
all these years later
people you look up to, coming out

so
2017, national coming out day
what do you think
are we there?
what do you think?
well, does this look familiar to you?
it kind of looks like 1988 right?
we have a president who doesn't mind uttering a lot of things
so it's not having silence
but a message saying maybe need to slow it down etc
that's what shows up at the protests and marches
the red hats
not like the white masks of the 80s

what's great about the tech sector
is that they are actually the movement towards LGBT support


slide: 2017 - transformative work in challenging times
issues:
dropouts from school
physical assault in school
runaways
suicide
bulling/harassment
youth homelessness
attempted suicide
drug/alcohol abuse
family violence
if you are LGBTQ, you are likely to be in one of these groups with elevated risk/experiences

who comes to mind when you think of the forerunners of computer science

recognize this person? we would not all be standing here if not for his work
slide: image of alan turing

slides: maven youth, nonprofit dedicated to bringing tech and career leadership to LGBTQ youth

how did it all get started?
an investment by github

github was the first company when we were approaching a concept, an idea
at the same time that black girls code was doing this
github said this is important
we're going to fund this

slide: github's investment - coming out for LGBT+ youth

slide: the power of 1 coming out
number of companies shown, google, indeed, etc.

github even stepped up and invested in us (slide: $100,000)

i hope the power of one, this one company that github is investing in at this level, we can show other companies the need to uplift LGBT youth

slide: the power of you coming out
mentor LGBT+ youth
lead LGBT+ inclusive policy changes
host an LGBT+ youth in tech event
donate and have your company match you
get your company to be a champion for th eLGBT+ community by becoming a sponsor

the pink elephant in this room is that you have privilege
that even some of you are being paid to be here to learn and attend
that you can donate and your company will match and yet you have not leveraged or put this to work

november changed your privilege of being a bystander
you need to tkae a step
you need to come out nad be proactive
so please think about all the ways that you can come out in the community
the ways you can come out at work
the last thin i ask to you to do is step up and be a champion for LGBT youth in tech
that is a big tihng
maybe you have to tackle the other things before you can take this big step

slide: benefit concert - come out tonight for LGbT+ youth
(NEON TREES)

let's celebrate tonight because the next day
you have to work hard to contribute to the other challenges of coming out.