big data day la
saving lives through big data, using data science to help drug researches (sponsored)
@shreekant agrawal
shree_agrawal

ed - missed slides due to transit time and standing room only issue

* ???

impact
- what happens when something goes wrong?

scale
- millions of medicines mfg daily
- $450B industry
- much bigger industry than music and media

* what does a manufacturing operation look like?
bio-reactors or mixers are the main mfg equipment in pharmas
different sets of sensors\probes are mounted on theirs bio-reactors
- O2, CO2, pressure, temperature, production, etc.

readings of these sensors are monitored on shop floor by technitions
sensors have software installed to stream and store and save data in servers

OSIsoft spark (?)

there can be hundreds of BRs (bioreactors)
operations can be spread out all over the world

one case study: 600,000 sensors in a global production cluster

* what is the power of this data?

one big domain: mfg science, mfg research
science for optimizing the mfg process

this data can help scientists optimize mfg output

operations and QA:
technicians and QA resources analyze any adverse events or failed batches

they log non-conformance to be processed and studied

predictive analysis:
data scientists to analyze pattern of the events that might have lead to failure

* what are some challenges in doing analytics on this data?

storage:
high i/o capability to handle lage volumes. handle simultaneous and real-time read and writes.

bringing data to common platform:
data ingestion capabilities with high throughput

analytics platform:
how do we expose all of this data to be available in realtime to scientists?
an "ultimate" analytics solution that would be able to process large data volumes

* how did we solve these problems

data generation & ingestion -> data storage & processing -> data access & visualization
enterprise PI -> data lake -> presentation
kafka -> spark streaming / axibase / hadoop -> data science tools / standard UI tools

data exposed through ODBC and JDBC
any platform that supports these can consume data
axibase is the time-series db and it supports functions like interpolation
data in hdfs is stored in form of files (allows file access)

* scalable, accessible, cheap
scalable: can we add parallel workers?
accessible: can any tool be used by scientists for analysis?
cheap:

50,000msgs/s on 6 data node cluster to get this throughput

* how has this solution impacted the life of scientists?
- faster query response time
axibase and hdfs provide high IO throughput

- exposure to suite of data science tools
pick whatever data science tool you prefer for analysis

- real-time data ready for integration
data is available in real-time and in a common platform. this helps in integration.

* what are some other trends for Data Science in healthcare?

other areas in healthcare where DS plays a crucial role:
clinical data
real world evidence - electronic medical records
multi channel marketing

every single minute saved in a redundant activity empowers scientists and engineers in concentrating on drug research

