the battle for developer ecosystems - al hilwa, program director, IDC

** agenda
market forces
technology trends
future transformations
developer ecosystems
survey data

"10 million professionals worldwide, many more hobbyists and amateurs"

app dev market (1)

consumeration of IT
mobile devices
touch interfaces
social networking
cloud services
new content

"there was a time when IT used to lead technology, but now it is trying to fllow what is going on. we have a lot of things going on in the market that makes it difficult for IT departments to keep up."

"touch interfaces have changed the way we write applications"

"social networking is ingrained in all applications, almost taking over the user interfaces"

"crowdsource contents, information blogs, wikis, videos are all ..."

Free tools
- too vs runtime, where is the value?
- more users than developers
- more devices than users

"people are starting to charge for deployment, runtime devices, etc. the value has moved to where the user is."

new business models
- advertising
- freemium
- AppDev as a service (tools as a service, platform as a service)
- open source

"open source may be used as a community leadership tool, staying ahead of anyone else who might use the code. but putting the code out there keeps people from publishing similar things."

*** app dev technology

virtual machine languages

dominance on the server, some retreat on the client
- value auto memory (GC), type enforcement
- performance and control remain challenges
- compiled/native still primary on the client

language vm => OS => hardware/machine

"native coding is back in vogue again, to supplement virual machine-like languages"

the framework changed everything
successful frameworks reach critical mass (RoR, J2EE, .NET, Spring, ...)
mvc frameworks now estabilished paradigm
shift to light-weight containers to support cloud deployment

** rise of scripting - son of RAD
back to the future with productivity
late-binding for agility
moore's law to the rescue
javascript, php, ruby pull ahead of the crowd
javascript shows client-to-server synergies
configuration-based techniques play supporting role (screen designers, BPM, portals, mashups...)

"by and large, javascript and php have pulled away from the crowd"

** app dev transformations - architectures
evolution of distributed computing
logic complexity swings between client/server

1970 servers over clients (mainframes => terminals)
1980 clients over servers (pc apps => fileservers, rdbms)
1990 servers over clients (DBs -> Forms / RAD)
2000 clients over servers (Web Browsers, RIA, Plugins => web servers/app servers)
2010? servers over clients (Cloud platforms => device apps)

** app dev transformations - the frontend
the ui: linchpin to the consumer revolution
touch revolution
social everything
content is the new data
web architecture dominaties - RIA goes html5/js
hardware acceleration

"web vs. native still playing out on mobile devices, the result is still TBD."

mobile convergence
pc goes mobile
touch everything
sensors everywhere
smaller apps, bigger runtimes
new app monetization opportunities
rich developer analytics
choice: native vs. web

"in mobile applications, you get a lot of call-home opportunities, you can find out what people do and how in your application at an unprecedented level."

app dev transformations - thebackend

PaaS - the new back-end
cloud platforms scramble to back the front-end
programmable provisioning and deployment
elasticity and the economics of incrementalism
built-in disaster recovery and application availability
competing paradigms

virtualization  vs. multi-tenancy

Data Explosion
tracking, profiles, behaviors, clicks, logs, location, sensors
content, documents, photos, books, video
crowdsourcing content

new data engines
content (couchDB, mongoDB)
no-sql
map-reduce technology

- tools
should development be in the cloud?
ALM in the cloud more mature (testing, version control, bug tracking...)
IDE in the cloud?

consumer platforms build on enterprise ecosystems
c/c++ for ios
.net for windows phone
java for android
web for the rest

race to leverage ecosystems
free tools
rich developer services
marketplaces

enterprises build on consumer ecosystems
developer shortages
attempt to close consumer gap
small enterprises first to cloud

Technology Feedback Loop: Enterprise => Consumer => Enterprise...

the web ecosystem (1)
historical challenge of standards
webkit breakthrough
chasing the iPhone
video standards

HTML5: umbrella standard
starring: JS (canvas, web workers, ...)
standard bodies move faster

HTML5 timeline

1999 html4 published, no traction
1997 html3.2 published
1995 html2 
1993 html grammer, mosaic released
1989 tim-berners lee proposes hypertext system in CERN memo

2004 whatwg starts work on web apps 1.0 spec
2009 html last call working draft, no video tqag agreement
2010 major browsers work on html5, google completes on2 acqiusighin, releases webM

2011 desktop and mobile browsers shipt html5 releases

projection

2013 90% of devices will have html5 capabilities
2015 90% of desktops will have html5 capabilities

html5/js dominates, plug-ins expected to retreat to the high-end

"things that are made today in flash, in a couple of years will be made in html5"
"flash's role will move solely into the very high end. people say it may die, but things rarely die so much as shrivel, but it will still be around."

2011 JS Developer Survey 400 respondents
US Only
58 work in companies with 5k or less employers
54 are internal enterprise developers

17.4% native ui
16.7 web ui
19.9 device and embedded
23.2 data management
remainder - server apps

how many are in mobile dev?
2--6 3.8%
2007 5
2008 8
2009 15.5
2010 24.8
2011 41.3%

which ecosystems do you affiliate with?

12% none
12% cobol/rpg
java 23.5%
compiled (c/c++) 26.5%
ms/.net 29.5
web/scripting 31.8%
database (???)

"if you have a technology you want to snap into an ecosystems. you want to make it easy for people to migrate and distribute throughout the ecosystem"/