opening keynote
issac z schlueter

why this npm thing
--
back then, lots of interesting node stuff being done, but no easy way to share dependencies
when everyone else pushes hard to move forward, the best thing to do is reduce friction
small modules and semver are quite popular! the experiment has mostly worked!

semver
--
not magic, not math
still pretty good! shared vocabulary is useful!
the semantics are inside you
they were in you all along
- numbers are just tokens, you assign the value

small modules
--
not an original design goal of npm!
just what happens when it's easy and possible to split a program up into pieces
write a thing, why not publish it?
if that's *a thing*, then it needs docs, and tests!

the value of small modules is the value of modules
reuse and parallel iteration
hiding complexity
code quality and isolation
but no strategy is without tradeoffs

npm got started when issac was looking to build a web framework in node, realized that a package manager was needed to pull in other units of work

npm 2009-2013
--
2009-2013, npm community grew a lot
my side project, help from a handful of others
the infrastructure was donated generously by couchone, then iriscouch, then nodejitsu
q4 2013, things melted down in a bad way

why npm, inc.? what does it do? does it do things?? let's find out!
--
the problem was resources
make a foundation?
make npm a joyent thing?
make a new company?

(missed slide)

the thing about exponential growth is that unexpected things are the norm
humans are not built to handle the scope of exponential growth

npm is here to help you make stuff with javascript
the npm registry is a crucial part of modern oss

slide: the spice must flow (graph of growth and some stats on growth)

it's all about popular
--
over 4M human beings using npm
if we hiccup, the internet gets very upset
i've stopped being amazed by large numbers
constant exposure to npm's graphs has broken me
everyone uses npm for everything and it's awesome, but also never stops feeling weird to me

why conference?
--
npm is mentioned at pretty much every js event
frontend, backend, iot, all the things
wanted an event focusing on our community
mostly not wombats! (but some wombats)

a few nice things
--
zeit.co: deploy your node programs easily
greenkeeper: keep deps locked and up to date
node security project: what it says on the tin
bithound: code quality analytics
hyperterm: a term using electron and npm
thousands of things that don't fit here

npm, inc.'s actual plans
--
keep working to make npm the obvious, trusted, essential tool for all web development
let this community keep growing and building awesome new things
support our customers and keep delivering value
stay ahead of the exponential scaling curve

the future is large
fill it up with ideas
have fun
