lending privilege
anjuan simmons, assemble systems

@anjuan

recent news: tech inclusion pledge

you have a role to play in making tech a more inclusive industry

slide: moving frmo diversity to inclusion and empathy
diversity has reached EOL, and we should move to inclusion and empathy. diversity is easy to game.
diversity is inviting people to a house party.
inclusion and empathy is making sure people are feeling welcome and happy at your party
  - some may have had to travel far to join the party
  - or work extra hard

slide: inclusion and innovation

there's actual value to being inclusive
inclusive teams are innovated teams - (studies show)

graph of innovation and inclusion in mutual relation

inclusion is really at the heart of open source
even from the beginning

the cathedral and the bazaar
one of the first works on open source development
(by eric s. raymond)

"given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow"

more formal version:
"given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone."

if we have open source be this big tent, this boisterous forum to software and dedication to making it better, there's no problem we can't solve.
often our companies are tended by privilege, and there are voices we keep out of the bazaar, disallowing them from participating in the project (in the company)

slide: what privilege is not
privilege doesn't mean you haven't worked hard, that you haven't made sacrifices, that you aren't good at what you do
for some, their journey is harder, and they have barriers that make it hard that you don't have to deal with; their journey through technology is harder than yours

it doesn't mean you're not a good person, it just means things are a little bit easier for you

privilege, two major categories:

birth privilege
--
racial, gender, etc.

ironically, birth privilege, which you do not even choose for yourself, are often the cause of most vice

selected privilege
--
different factors that you choose for yourself
it's human nature to share your privilege with people who have it
people who have racial privilege, generally choose the benefits of racial privilege to those who have it
it's more powerful to lend your privilege than to keep it to yourself (your peers?)

portfolio of privilege
--
parental
education
racial
religion
gender
physical

how much harder would your journey through technology without these privileges?
there are people you work with every day, who have to work without some (or all) of these privileges

having a more empathetic and inclusive (words?) benefits the industry

let's face it: marginalization is on the rise (slide of trump / clinton)

credibility lending
--
providing visibility to someone without privilege
LGBTQ people often feel invisible / not recognized; credibility lending can help fix this

slide of de ray and stephen colbert: they swapped chairs, colbert lent credibility to de ray


access lending
--
providing entry to someone without privilege
for women in tech, there are barriest due to gender privilege
access lending can be a powerful way to solve this problem
tracey chow (chau? sp?) - one of her professors insisted she become a TA (as a stanford student? grad student?); by becoming a TA, she was able to see that her grades were better and that her status was higher (merit) than she believed


expertise lending
--
providing a voice to those who don't have privilege
often people of color don't feel we have a voice in technology, because we dno't have the racial privilege of leaders in technology
expertise lending is a good way to fix this

at swsx, michelle obama was able to speak at the music festival:
  "if you got a voice at the table, is there diversity around the table, are there voices or opinions that don't sound like yours?"
a challenge to those in the lead
a description of the bazaar in the aforementioned book

give underrepresented people opportunities to lead

your turn to lend
--
this isn't hard to implement
just open your eyes to contributors who lack privilege
and you can lend them privilege
and help them with access and gain credibility by lending it
it has to become a philosophy
you have to believe this cathedral (or this bazaar) is real
and that this requires inclusion
and this can be improved by improving inclusion

speaker: story about POC being denied a promotion, every peer got promoted but the POC did not; being an advocate for inclusion is not a sprint, it's a marathon. you have to embed it in your work.

to get excluded to stay, to get promoted in technology, you can make a difference by lending your privilege

@anjuan
https://linkedin.com/in/anjuan

stock images from wocintechchat.com

