lets encrypt
josh aas / cofounder/exec dir let's encrypt

a free, automated, and open certificate authority

slide: why is https important for everyone?

users aren't in control of their data any more
the web is too complex
need to treat everything as potentially sensitive

developers expect integrit. unencrypted traffic can be modified, eg. ad insertion, script injection (eg. great cannon)

slide: the web isn't secure
accoring to firefox telemetry, only 45% of page loads are https
this should be 100%

slide: why isn't the web secure?

security is too difficult
we know what needs to be done but we haven't made it easy enough to do

slide: secure connection requirements

encryption (scrambling bits)
authentication (who am i talking to)

slide: encryption (easy-ish)

just a software stack for public key and symmetric crypto that needs to be installed and configured
most web services support it
private (???) supported

slide: authentication via CA (too hard)

certificate authorities issue the x.509 certificates required for SSL/TLS

slide: traditional certificate fun

figure out you need a cert
try to figure out where to get a cert from
figure out what kind you need
figure out how to request a cert (learn what a CSR is and how you make ojne)
go through painful manual verification process, maybe setup a new email address
pay
figure out how to install your cert
remember to renew it on time

slide: http/2 summer 2012
http/2 ietf wg debating requiring encryption
major objection was encryption was too hard or even impossible for many
josh aas and eric rescorla decide we need to address this problem if the web is ever going to achieve https everywhere

slide: the solution

we needed a new CA, a lot of work, but nothing short of that would cut it
didn't think we could get an existing CA to fully cooperate 
especially in the time scale we wanted
also, didn't want to be forever at the mercy of another CA

slide: cornerstones for a new CA

automated - ease of use, reliability, and scalability
free - cost excludes, payment adds complexity
transparent / open - essential for trust
global - the secure web is for everyone

slide: building a foundation
spent 2 years clearing schedules, creating an entity, finding initial sponsors, and making a plan for getting trusted (a deal with an existing CA)

initial backers: akamai, mozilla, cisco, EFF
CA partner: IdenTrust (part of HID Global)

slide: Internet Security Research Group

ISRG is the entity behind let's encrypt
founded 2013
IRS 501(c)(3) status granted june 2014

slide: building let's encrypt
work still to complete:
creating CA policy
writing software
hiring a team
etc.

slide: how let's encrypt works

ACME protocol, "DHCP for certificates"
Boulder CA software implements ACME, running on Let's encrypt infrastructure
clients request certificate from let's encrypt via ACME

everything can be done through ACME

slide: types of certificates

domain validation (DV) - asserts control of a domain (what let's encrypt does)
organization validation (OV) - asserts control of a domain as well as basic organizational vetting
extended validation (EV) - asserts control of a domain as well as extended organizational vetting

we only issue DV certs - this is the only level at which let's encrypt can operate in automated fashion

slide: ACME

automated certificate management environment

it's at the core of how let's encrypt works
provides API for requesting, validating, revoking, and otherwise managing certificates
being standardized by IETF

slide: ACME issuance overview

client -> cert request -> ACME server
<- challenge
-> challenges completed
<- verify challenge completion
<- certificate (or denial)

slide: ACME challenge types

http: put a file on your web server
DVSNI: provision a virtual host at your domain's IP address
DNS: provision a DNS record for your domain

slide: clients

3 categories
1. simple (drop a cert in the current dir)
2. full featured (configure server for you)
3. built-in (web server just does it)
built-in is the best client experience!

slide (video): caddy sever video clip courtesy of matt holt

slide: 90 day cert lifetimes

shorter lifetimes are important for security
encourage automation
limit damage from key compromise or mis-issuance (in case revocation doesn't work)
short-lived certs some day? potentially a nice solution for revocation

ex. chrome doesn't check OCSP/revocation
other issues with revocation
better hope your private keys don't leak

slide: phishing and malware

CAs are not the right place to police phishing and malware!
* don't have the data
* can't respond fast enough
* if https becomes existential, we don't want to be censors
* revocation is ineffective

read our full blog post on this
https://letsencrypt.org/2015/10/29/phishing-and-malware.html

let's encrypt asks google if site has a reputation for malware

slide: certificate transparency
public transparency log (near real-time list)
https://crt.sh

slide: our commitment to transparency

goes beyond certificate transparency

open source software
quick and complete incident disclosure
public benefit governance

slide: let's encrypt is everywhere

there are countries in the world where it has been very difficult to get a cert

not anymore

we issue to every country in the world
every tld and cctld except for .mil
the secure web is for everyone

slide: active certificates
launched on 2013/12
certs covering over 7M domains, 3.6M active certs as of 2016/06

slide: https growth rate
approx. 92% of let's encrypt certs are issued to domains that didn't have certificates before

we can create a web that is more encrypted than not in 2016

growth - 2015/12 39.5% -> 2016/04 42% -> 2016/06 45%
projection - possible that by end of 2016, this could break 50%

slide: champion let's encrypt at work

make sure your employer is deploying https by default for every site. demand the same from your partners
get your employer to sponsor us
we need strong advocates inside companies to keep let's encrypt going

Q&A
----

q: what do the other CAs think of you? how did you get the one to partner with you.
a: CAs aren't too concerned about us, and they shouldn't be. other CAs offer other kinds of certs, we don't offer paid support or anything, etc. there's a lot of value that other CAs provide that we don't provide. other CAs may see this as an inevitability as well. let's encrypt is useful to the CA ecosystem because it extends support to everyone. why identrust in particular partner with us? they got it. they understood what they were trying to do. they had the cross-signing and support services needed; it just made sense.

q: is let's encrypt vulnerable to interference from the gov?
a: i'm not sure how likely that is, but it is something we have thought out. .. when we think about how secure we need to be and how paranoid we need to be. ... on the legal side of things, we have good attorneys, we publish a transparency report, can people use/access let's encrypt to snoop on people's data? yes in a way, but not in a way you think. (paraphrase) if compromised, you could only really issue certs, nothing that you couldn't get from any other CA. we don't ask for private keys, we don't want them, you wouldn't be able to get access to people's data. the value in that is not as high as some people think.

q: do you have educational efforts to teach people how to use it?
a: we don't write now, fairly small, currently spending a lot of times keeping things running. but the community is doing a good job helping to keep things up and getting answers to people (paraphrased). our community site is where most of the education happens.

q: are you pursuing let's encrypt integrations with other providers? (besides wordpress)
a: yes, we have many ongoing ones.

q: do you have a published list of hosting providers?
a: i believe there is one on our community site. that landscape tends to change pretty quickly.