OWASP Boston Panel Session
Moderator: Rob Cheyne, CEO, Safelight Security Advisors
Panelist: Josh Corman, Security Analyst, The 451 Group
Panelist: Justin Peavey, CISO, Omgeo
Panelist: Brian Weekes, Linux Infrastructure Lead, GMO
Panelist: Adriel DeSautels, CTO, NetRagard
Panelist: Shakeel Tufail, Security Analyst, Fortify

Before 10 years ago, everyone was locking down networks. Now, we've added more progress in protecting at the Application level. From a purely technical point of view, we are not winning. But, chaos hasn't happened; economies haven't collapsed on a security basis; and the zombie apocalypse hasn't occured.

So, is there a problem; given that nothing major has happened yet? I present to you... <introduces panel>.

So to start, do we have a problem?

#1: A little background. I started my career as a coder; did some orange book level coding for the DoD, system coding, system management, system design. From there, I worked with a major local financial inst. and created their intial application security program. I think we created the very first course at the application level; rolled out worldwide to ~2k developers. I now have to look at things at more of a business level perspective now, as a voice of reason.

Mod: Should we concerned?


#2: We gotta be concerned, but I gotta use the point you made. 10 years ago we secured networks. Are we still doing it? Yes. It's routine to us. Have to evaluate everything and we'll still find flaws. We don't know how to do application security at a hygiene level. Now, I expect in 10 years we'll secure things at a data and app level. A little more hygiene every year.
Adriel: I'm from netragard. We work on pen testing and also on standard testing. If you want to defend against a threat; you have to test at a real world level. We also broker exploits; I am one of the brokers for gathering exploits from hackers and researchers. I think there's a real problem; I don't think it is etting any better; the security game is always an advancement game. I think it is tough because people acquire technology too fast. Now we have cars with IP addresses (sarcasm) what a great idea; now we are past the point that hasn't been solved- where cars can be hacked.

#3: I'm a lead manager for a ??? mgmt company here in boston. I spend most of my time with clients, scientists, traders; building up infrastructure for trading platforms. Most of my exploits are targeted at my clients; in an effort to put systems in place to solve a lack of security on their platform. They have an attitude that this is something that impairs their ability to work productively. The business needs to be able to get certain tasks done; it's not an easy position to be in; you know what the exploits are and what the outcome will be; sometimes you are forced to wait for a client to break something (because of it) that is valuable to the business.


#4: I'm a product manager for Fortify; web inspect is our product/code analysis tool. So... uh, before this I was working for a software sec. company called synergal (??) and a number of gov agencies before that (US Customs) so I have experience in both federal and commercial sectors. Also worked on AIM Messenger. My perspective [showing my age]; I remember when it was all about functionality. Let's get it on the web; make it work; growth and cool things going- the big mantra about network security (CCNA and stuff); we were behind the 8-ball a lot of the time. We were infiltrated and our blockades were basically swiss cheese. Things have improved; we have more computational power and techniques to improve things. There are three reasons that software security has become such a big issue. If you remember webapps early and back to the early 90s and circa 2000; because internet speeds were so slow; you couldn't put a complex application out there. Now; we have 7B in the world, 1.6B people on the internet. Almost all businesses use at least one internet application that is exposed to 90% of their process (NOTE: numbers???). If you've worked for the gov; you've heard of secret, super secret networks; how many people are on these? 875k users. That's hardly a small network. Things are moving along; speeds are changing, increasing, it's getting bigger and more complex. There was someone who wrote an article years ago; I don't know how true it was but it was hilarious. What's the first thing you write when you write a program? Hello World! Well, we had this researcher who wrote it in .NET 1.1; found 5 vulnerabilities in the core library afterward. We run on such large untested platforms! Fortify was recently acquired by HP; for about 300M. I think the message is being heard- the message is slow; but I think people are starting to take notice that this is all important.

#5: There's definitely a problem. I see myself as one of those people who wants to be a hero; maybe I have a protector gene. There's very bad people doing very bad things. It used to be financial- it used to be miscreants. There's a lot of hacktivism, human trafficking, child pornography, etc. It used to be people doing it just for prestiege; now we have the problem that people also do it for politics and profit. I'm not trying to be a FUD-monger; I know these people like to give out shit and try to sell you on FUD; but the truth is that the innovation curve has gone straight up for the bad guys; and not so much for the good guys. This makes me wary of PCI- we get static in routines that don't work. I am optimistic- we need to innovate; and recruit more people like you. More tools. We spent 20B on network infrastructure; and there is not a pen-tester deterred by this spending. Metasploit, Metasploit related toys; it takes no time to put PCI compliance to the test. Even though no vulnerabilities were found by such tools on PCI scans; 90% of all security was from SQL injections. Not just spread penicillin between all the patients; but to also fight where we get hardest. Think more intelligently and act more so in all of these.

Mod: So one thing... I've been talking for a couple years now; as technology advances, we're at the mercy of moore's laws. At this enables new technologies; eg. DropBox. Automatically sync to the cloud; automatically to all of your subscribers' computers. 20 Years ago, never knew i'd have a smartphone in my pocket; let alone one that could play doom. What I've noticed is that if you have this exponential curve; companies deploy much slower than that. What I'd like to plead to you guys, where are we going to be in 5 years; and how can we make a difference?

#1: Who's still working on network solutions? We all are. We have to hire network persons; we expect them to be cognizant of security. Going forward with the gap. The Gap's not going away. I don't see any feasible way to close that gap. Companies are always going to lag behind small individuals and consortiums that can jump on a new concept. It's always the small firms that generate the latest and greaters. It is the large firms that roll up these changes over time with their momentum. But where I think we need to keep focusing is on layers; I don't think we can expect our software to have no vulnerabilities- anyone who thinks otherwise is mislead. We need to be aware; assume vulnerability; and act accordingly. Manage risk. They can get through here; there; and we're going to close holes as much as we can. Budgets and companies are bound by the profit they make; I can't just quadruple my budget to protect my company. We have to work together. Increase technologies, work smarter, intelligently; and apply it better. The banks are an example. Can someone break into a web account; no bank is going to say no; but the bank will try to act as they can. They will follow the trail; reduce the risk; find out if they're misusing your account and contain the damage that can be done. We're looking for intelligent, smart, knowledgeable people who can push this agenda to make good decisions.

#2: I think the gap is not going to go away; but I think we can shrink the gap and work on it by making software more rugged. I think we can make the gap smaller by making software more rugged. Something I keep hearing is that everything is more and more just software. Router, software. Desktop, software. Servers, software. People who are making software; are not thinking about making it secure; and that contributes to the problem. We can educate people; make them aware; and work on making them better at writing secure software. I think part of the gap is also created by the threat; we work on improving software, but the threat also evolves. As technology becomes more secure; attackers don't hit it where it is hard; they try to find ways around or hit the soft points; this threat won't go away. We have to stop being idiots and plugging it everywhere too fast. We have to stop putting it in our cars and nuclear plants. We have to wake up and not adopt so quickly. I think part of it is being responsible with technology. People can be killed by mistakes in technology.

Josh: We keep talking about pearl-harbor events; it's already happened. We don't have bloody-body events; it isn't loss of human life; but assets. Things are stolen for copies. This latent and not noticiable from the top. You hear about stupid ridiculous PCI breaches; but we hear about the really vicious ones. That same cycle. We trust, we ???, we hide. We need a cultural fabric that people know that this is something we have to do. If you feel that you deserve a certain level of quality, security; when demand is sufficient; the supply will follow. We just don't value this yet; when demand goes up, supply goes up; it will follow. It is a given that we will secure apps. We need to work on the gap. It will happen.

#3: Those breaches do happen; I've witnessed many myself. The companies will not expose this information; somebody happens to get an IP or something silly; gets the code or genetics behind the pill or drug; companies will keep it quiet to avoid damaging their stock. Closing the gap, there needs to be a different focus for these companies; right now the focus is not in security; it's on bringing in income. The thing is down at the IT level; they're focused on the security, but their clients (those making the drugs or money for the business); this is not their prime directive. They're concerned; but the people at the top are not those implementing it; they're not putting applications into the business set; and may be creating these vulnerabilities. If you can create a mindset for employees to adopt security and implement it; we can work on the gap. Until then, we'll still have it.

#1: I agree with your points, but there are certain sectors that are aware and starting to catch on to this. There are people in those sectors and forward; they get it. They made not be able to push the organization; but it's certainly not ignored. I've participated in sessions as a matter of ???? where we get classified briefings, and we are seeing exactly what is going on out there. And that impact is definitely being drilled into those corporations and executives. But; they have no charter to product us. And even in gov; they don't have a charter to protect businesses; the financial system; etc. But in the last 45 years, the organizations are catching on. It's becoming pervasive; even if they aren't adopting it. If they can take 3-4 breaches and still making ridiculous profit; they might not see it as a good investment. On the other hand; those that are regulated; pressure is being placed on them by the gov. to vastly improve security.

#4: A couple things.. I don't like the where are we going to be questions. Again, harping on what I do at the parent company; we need better tools. I'm a contractor guy; I help them implementor and help them learn how to solve problems. My entire life has been solutions. Within 4-5 years our software may be at version 15 (laughs). I know there may be some dilution of tools; I remember doing pen-testing with open source tools... all those suites; now everybody has a tool and thinks they're a pen tester. I think security may thus be diluted when it comes to software security; things are getting better though. When I worked on AIM, one of the first vulnerability I found was buffer overflows. Now; they're in decline. People are more aware; more cautious with the things they learn in language (C++); and even learn in college that certain things may be subject. We have frameworks; .NET, Java, that are less susceptible. Lot of software vulnerabilities defeated over time; but lots of them things created over time to compensate and resolve them. I think we'll be looking at a much different landscape- speaking from gov. side; there'll be more attack as well as defense. There's two agencies where we're also doing (you haven't heard of them) as much attack as defense.

Mod: So from my point of view; If you're going to build a technology and have it be secure; you have to ???. Technology is thought of a magic bullet, but not entirely so. When you have a decision between one or the other; technology vs. business; business (money) side almost always wins. We have to find ways to improve this. I've worked for people who get it; yet many who don't.

Josh: If you're making a tradeoff between business and security; business wins every time.

Mod: So I'm not saying it's the ultimate goal; I'm saying we have to evaluate and make better decisions. I guess this is my open-ended question- What can we be doing to better strike that balance?

1: I've worked at some companies where we had to create a security platform application that did not previously exist. And I started more from (#2)'s side of the world. I bring in testers. We bring in the best that we can, and demonstrate that this is a problem and put real results on the table. Take one of your real applications; put smart people on it; and demonstrate that this is a problem. Every time i've done that, the money follows. The real world is that the danger is out there, and bring in some funds so that you can have more options to solve these problems. And often, sometimes we have good applications; they were fine! and then used in a context where we can't count on security assumptions anymore. Like an IBM mainframe; worked beautifully inside; horribly when outside. I think the best way to kick this off is just bring in real world data and show it to your investors.

#2: I don't think there's a battle between business vs. security; I think if you implement both properly, it shouldn't be a hindrance. If you build security properly from ground up; I think you can do everything better. If you do security improperly; you make it tough for people to do their jobs; you make it tough for work to get done, you have a real headache. So if you drag everyone down; they get tempted to build things on watery sand; fortresses on top of sand that eats away and topples the business. I know my business was created by security guys; so we do it right. We don't have problems, we work on it; we work hard- I think this is proof that you can work on it and make it happen. If you do it improperly; people sometimes complain they had freedom and then battle against you. Don't let that attitude happen.

Mod: So as a teacher/instructor; I've had students plead for me to get this done in front of their boss. People get sidetracked, too, by 

2: Money is a lifeblood of a business; if security is going to hinder that; security is going to lose. Security has to be implemented in such a way that it supports business.

#4: Just to support that; and that I think I disagree with (MOD) that we have to show some type of value to management, who the decisionmakers are- to create policy (or reluctantly, legislate into law); to make it a required effort. We have to enforce it top bottom; the defense contractors; they won't do it if it isn't in the contract. You have to show some type of value or enhancement by this; worst case is the company shows it by a breach. It doesn't have to be pen-testers; when we sell; we start by offering to do a scan for free. We give them a free run; tell them to call us; and the results peak for themselves (they call us!). I think voices are being heard, people are learning to get on board. I've heard that the security market is $280B industry. Software security, is only 15%!

Audience: What do you think of PCI?
Audience: BOOOOO!

Josh: Security is a cost, we need a change of attitude. It is an inhibitor, but the bosses don't want it. We want to be secure, but the bosses don't want _security_. (#3 Secure is eating into my bonus!). It's almost that you want to setup a governance program for the software security that you deserve; and get appeal at the VP level. That way, what the threats are, get it to get more out of IT, and then get it to be applied as an enhancement to operations. And you'd be surprised as to how they apply it to the money they're spending on someone else; as opposed to eating cost internally.

#1: If you don't require this yourselves, then you will have a hard time selling it to management. You need to feel that you deserve it. Ask yourselves the same questions. Show me your software security. Show me where this is tested... and demand it.

Mod: I think that when PCI came out; it was a very necessary evil at that time. It forced a lot of people who were doing nothing; and made them do something. Sometimes it also made some people do less. Compliances and Security Issues are not always the same thing.

#1: I think you hit it on the head with PCI; whenever you see simplistic, prescriptive regulation, it tends to get behind the times quickly.

#4: PCI, good and bad. A lot of companies that weren't thinkg about these issues, started. A company, last year, had just got their PCI test; passed with flying colors; we went in with pen-test, found tons of errors. We got in w/their sec. director; they were upset "we passed our compliance!".

#2: I don't think a lot of people are PCI compliant when they do pass. A lot of these security companies are doing a slack-ass job. Script kiddies using open source tools just to get your money. I think there's a huge difference, also, between being really compliant and secure, you can be compliant (highly) and yet be insecure. We've yet to come across a bank that we couldn't penetrate. PCI is a great idea, but the people who are certifying, aren't doing a good job.

#5: I just spent a year doing this. I compared PCI to the no-child-left-behind act. It was made to make the dumb kids smarter; made the smart kids dumb. We went from spending on 70 categories down to 9 categories. 94% of breaches were custom software; PCI does nothing against this except maybe antivirus; useless against zero-day.

#2: It was back in 2000something, a vulnerability for symantec enterprise; that would get you comprimised from inside out. And this was supposed to be protecting you! Any software is suspect; you have to work to prove it. That's the real process.

#5: You hit it on the head. A good risk plan will save you; but working on compliance will get you hacked. There are two kinds of companies, those who seek compliance, those who stay out of the newspaper.

Audience: Has anyone been a target of a data-breach law? As an enforcement case? Criminal or Civil?

#5: I lost my *poop* after the hacker-cons this year; Dan Gear and whiteboard and 24 hours. We were talking about this. What we have, since 1984, is about 26 years of security as we know it. That 26 years has been faith-based security. We do not know if that works. What we need is evidence based security reports. We use stats for reports. We're looking where the light is best, not where we lost our keys. We have no data. So to avoid spending 30B on stuff that doesn't work; we need more date. All we have is 1386 and credit card acts. We need to mandate the disclosure of more breaches. If you have to put it in your 10K; if you HAVE to disclose that stuff; then you'll get people to change. Indirect answer; we need lots lots more data.

Audience: Currently there are 44 state data-breach laws. The one component that is making action is the notification action. Not the you-must-do-this; you-must-do-that; but the notification is causing all this data to be recorded to make better actions.

#1: Looking at all of those together, there's really only one law M.A. 201cmr17 that specifies that you must protect the data (except NV credit card law). When you have legislatures telling you how to do it, it's gonna be out of date quick. But we're all kind of waiting and seeing; hoping it isn't our company that gets to be the test case.
