ml spends a year in burgundy
jon oropeza

the job of a winemaker is to express a place and a year in a liquid medium

wine variables
grape varietal - what is grown
vineyard site - where it's grown
weather conditions - when it's grown

wine specifics
wines are 'rated' by well-known critics, providing publically available scores 1-100
wines are giving tastings by a broad audience which are published through social media
red wine vintages are often released a year and a half before the year

grapevine annual cycle
bud break
flowering
fruit set
veraison
harvest

all of these are pure functions of the weather (growing degree days, cumulative amount of heat received)

why burgundy
grape varietal
vineyard site
weather conditions
farmer artifice - how it is grown
winemaker artifice - how it's made

with a big enough data set, everything can be in control except weather data

in a variable-rich problem space
looking for variables you can control
can give you the framework you need to learn

wine and tech are similar in the generous nature of their communities, i can only hope to pay it forward

steps to using ml
1. is our problem appropriate for machine learning?

clear, predefined sequence of steps? - not so much
unknown patterns of predictability - potentially

2. gather raw data

3. transform (map & reduce) data

ML: unsupervised learning, supervised learning, reinforcement learning

4. pick a model/algo

5. decide on an implementation
machine learning examples and libraries are available for many languages

3 levels of abstraction
1. do all the fiddly bits for me, please (using a ml as a service)
2. let's go to the library (using libraries, and owning the model that is returned)
3. i love linear algebra (implement everything for yourself)

1. ml by recipe
2. ml using shaman.js
3. ml using aws

libraries both make it easier to get started, but can be hard to diagnose when something goes wrong

something learned: in the wine space, can't really know anything about the output until late summer (to see if the weather holds up in a desirable way - ed)

"the goal of the ml4all conference is to make applied machine learning accessible to the average software developer or enthusiast"

